h1. jQuery Quicksand plugin release notes

h2. v1.3.0

* added @maxWidth@ option
* added @atomic@ option
* added @adjustWidth@ option
* tweaked the plugin for better compatibility with responsive designs
* made the plugin re-use existing DOM elements instead of replacing them with new collection
* added Internet Explorer 10 and Windows 8 tweaks
* minor bug fixes and improvements

This release was made possible by: "@arlm":https://github.com/arlm, "@databyte":https://github.com/databyte, "@dalyons":https://github.com/dalyons, "@beedesk":https://github.com/beedesk, "@kiwiupover":https://github.com/kiwiupover and "@JonMcL":https://github.com/JonMcL.

h2. v1.2.2

- fixed Internet Explorer NaN issue
- fixed blinking in webkit-based browsers caused by callback race conditions

h2. v1.2.1

- added @enhancement@ option, making it possible to easily integrate Quicksand with visual enhancements such as font replacement

h2. v1.2

- replacing jQuery .css calls with raw JavaScript .style and removing temporary container improved performance (15%-40% faster) when preparing the animation 
- solved initial animation slowdowns
- added custom attribute functions: instead of providing HTML attribute with unique string, you can specify a function to extract the value: $('#source').quicksand('#dest li', {attribute: function(v) { return $(v).find('img').attr('src')} }); please note that although looks handy, it could be a bit more laggy
- added useScaling option so that you can disable scaling animation for performance reasons (helps a lot on slower machines)
- extended adjustHeight capabilities: from now you can set it to dynamic, auto or false
- greatly improved smoothness of the animation


h2. v1.1

- Fixed issues with position: relative
- Fixed occasional flickering
- Moderate performance improvements
- Disabled any animation in IE6 for more safety
- Added support for jQuery 1.3

h2. v1.0

First, feature-complete release of jQuery Quicksand plugin.
